Links/Relevant links.md, before:

# Relevant links for the book ''Fundamentals of Solar Cells and Photovoltaic Systems Engineering''

This list gathers updated links to online reports, apps and other tools that are related to the topics covered in the book. 

## Chapter 1. Introduction to Photovoltaic Solar Energy ##

Annually-published reports including updated information on solar PV.

[Fraunhofer-ISE, Photovoltaics Report](https://www.ise.fraunhofer.de/de/veroeffentlichungen/studien/photovoltaics-report.html)

[REN21,  Renewables 2021. Global Status Report](https://www.ren21.net/reports/global-status-report/)

[IEA, Solar PV webpage](https://www.iea.org/reports/solar-pv)

[IEA, Photovoltaic Power Systems Programme (PVPS)](https://iea-pvps.org/snapshot-reports/snapshot-2021)

[NREL, Life Cycle Assessment](https://www.nrel.gov/analysis/life-cycle-assessment.html)


## Chapter 2. Solar Radiation ##
[Backbody spectra simulator](https://phet.colorado.edu/en/simulations/blackbody-spectrum/about)

[Sun Path](http://andrewmarsh.com/apps/staging/sunpath3d.html)

[PV & solar radiation glossary](https://duramat.github.io/pv-terms/)

### Solar data
[The World Bank, Global Atlas](https://globalsolaratlas.info/solar-measurement)

[NREL, Measurement and Instrumentation Data Center](https://midcdmz.nrel.gov/)

[NREL, NSRDB, National Solar Radiation Database](https://nsrdb.nrel.gov/)

[JRC-EU, PVGIS, Photovoltaic Geographical Information System (contains NSRDB data)](https://re.jrc.ec.europa.eu/)

### Solar/PV modeling
[Sandia, PV Performance Modeling Collaborative](https://pvpmc.sandia.gov/)

[NREL, System Advisor Model](https://sam.nrel.gov/)

[NREL, PVWatts Calculator](https://pvwatts.nrel.gov/)

[PV*SOL, PV simulator](https://pvsol-online.valentin-software.com/)

[IES-UPM, SISIFO, PV simulator](https://www.sisifo.info/en/)

[PVSyst, PV simulator](https://www.pvsyst.com/)

[pvlib-python, PV & solar radiation simulator](https://github.com/pvlib/pvlib-python)

[Renewables.ninja, Solar&wind power output simulator](https://www.renewables.ninja/)

## Chapter 5. Silicon solar cell fabrication technology ##

[Video Summary Production of Silicon (NTNU)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D1ALNg3z2gk)

[Video Summary Production of Silicon (Wacker)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YxiNp7oQtuA)

[Silicon metal production plant description](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uCAxklI9yCA)

[3D video of Electric Arc Furnace (you can rotate the image)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NexTpizHOj8)

[Video EAF during penetration of electrodes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NBicwBvQEC0)

[Fraunhofer-ISE, Photovoltaics Report](https://www.ise.fraunhofer.de/de/veroeffentlichungen/studien/photovoltaics-report.html)

[International Technology Roadmap for Photovoltaic](https://itrpv.vdma.org/en/)

## Chapter 7. Photovoltaic modules ##

[International Technology Roadmap for Photovoltaic](https://itrpv.vdma.org/en/)


## Chapter 13.  Economics of solar energy ##

[IRENA,  Power Generation Costs](https://www.irena.org/costs/Power-Generation-Costs)

[Lazard's Levelized Cost of Energy](https://www.lazard.com/perspective/levelized-cost-of-energy-levelized-cost-of-storage-and-levelized-cost-of-hydrogen/)

[Fraunhofer-ISE, Photovoltaics Report](https://www.ise.fraunhofer.de/de/veroeffentlichungen/studien/photovoltaics-report.html)


## Chapter 15.  Solar PV for space applications  ##

[Video showing the roll out solar arrays at the International Space Station](https://twitter.com/Space_Station/status/1406639933796847621)

Commit message:

added link to fit IV curve

Links/Relevant links.md, after:

# Relevant links for the book ''Fundamentals of Solar Cells and Photovoltaic Systems Engineering''

This list gathers updated links to online reports, apps and other tools that are related to the topics covered in the book. 

## Chapter 1. Introduction to Photovoltaic Solar Energy ##

Annually-published reports including updated information on solar PV.

[Fraunhofer-ISE, Photovoltaics Report](https://www.ise.fraunhofer.de/de/veroeffentlichungen/studien/photovoltaics-report.html)

[REN21,  Renewables 2021. Global Status Report](https://www.ren21.net/reports/global-status-report/)

[IEA, Solar PV webpage](https://www.iea.org/reports/solar-pv)

[IEA, Photovoltaic Power Systems Programme (PVPS)](https://iea-pvps.org/snapshot-reports/snapshot-2021)

[NREL, Life Cycle Assessment](https://www.nrel.gov/analysis/life-cycle-assessment.html)


## Chapter 2. Solar Radiation ##
[Backbody spectra simulator](https://phet.colorado.edu/en/simulations/blackbody-spectrum/about)

[Sun Path](http://andrewmarsh.com/apps/staging/sunpath3d.html)

[PV & solar radiation glossary](https://duramat.github.io/pv-terms/)

### Solar data
[The World Bank, Global Atlas](https://globalsolaratlas.info/solar-measurement)

[NREL, Measurement and Instrumentation Data Center](https://midcdmz.nrel.gov/)

[NREL, NSRDB, National Solar Radiation Database](https://nsrdb.nrel.gov/)

[JRC-EU, PVGIS, Photovoltaic Geographical Information System (contains NSRDB data)](https://re.jrc.ec.europa.eu/)

### Solar/PV modeling
[Sandia, PV Performance Modeling Collaborative](https://pvpmc.sandia.gov/)

[NREL, System Advisor Model](https://sam.nrel.gov/)

[NREL, PVWatts Calculator](https://pvwatts.nrel.gov/)

[PV*SOL, PV simulator](https://pvsol-online.valentin-software.com/)

[IES-UPM, SISIFO, PV simulator](https://www.sisifo.info/en/)

[PVSyst, PV simulator](https://www.pvsyst.com/)

[pvlib-python, PV & solar radiation simulator](https://github.com/pvlib/pvlib-python)

[Renewables.ninja, Solar&wind power output simulator](https://www.renewables.ninja/)

## Chapter 5. Silicon solar cell fabrication technology ##

[Video Summary Production of Silicon (NTNU)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D1ALNg3z2gk)

[Video Summary Production of Silicon (Wacker)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YxiNp7oQtuA)

[Silicon metal production plant description](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uCAxklI9yCA)

[3D video of Electric Arc Furnace (you can rotate the image)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NexTpizHOj8)

[Video EAF during penetration of electrodes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NBicwBvQEC0)

[Fraunhofer-ISE, Photovoltaics Report](https://www.ise.fraunhofer.de/de/veroeffentlichungen/studien/photovoltaics-report.html)

[International Technology Roadmap for Photovoltaic](https://itrpv.vdma.org/en/)

## Chapter 7. Photovoltaic modules ##

[International Technology Roadmap for Photovoltaic](https://itrpv.vdma.org/en/)


## Chapter 12. Measuring solar cells, modules, and power plants ##
[Fitting an I-V curve from measured data](https://www.pvlighthouse.com.au/cms/lectures/white-papers/electrical/pmax-intro)

## Chapter 13.  Economics of solar energy ##

[IRENA,  Power Generation Costs](https://www.irena.org/costs/Power-Generation-Costs)

[Lazard's Levelized Cost of Energy](https://www.lazard.com/perspective/levelized-cost-of-energy-levelized-cost-of-storage-and-levelized-cost-of-hydrogen/)

[Fraunhofer-ISE, Photovoltaics Report](https://www.ise.fraunhofer.de/de/veroeffentlichungen/studien/photovoltaics-report.html)


## Chapter 15.  Solar PV for space applications  ##

[Video showing the roll out solar arrays at the International Space Station](https://twitter.com/Space_Station/status/1406639933796847621)
