pv-textbook/Links/Relevant_links.md, before:

# Relevant links

This list gathers updated links to online reports, apps, and other tools that are related to the topics covered in the book. 

## Chapter 1. Introduction to Photovoltaic Solar Energy ##

**Annually-published reports including updated information on solar PV.**

[Fraunhofer-ISE, Photovoltaics Report](https://www.ise.fraunhofer.de/de/veroeffentlichungen/studien/photovoltaics-report.html)

[IEA Photovoltaic Power Systems Programme (PVPS). Snapshot of global PV markets](https://iea-pvps.org/snapshot-reports/snapshot-2022/)

[REN21,  Renewables 2021. Global Status Report](https://www.ren21.net/reports/global-status-report/)

[IEA, Solar PV webpage](https://www.iea.org/reports/solar-pv)

[NREL, Life Cycle Assessment](https://www.nrel.gov/analysis/life-cycle-assessment.html)

[Photon International. Solar Power Magazine](https://www.photon.info/en/photon-international-solar-power-magazine)

[IEA Special Report, Solar PV Global Supply Chains](https://www.iea.org/reports/solar-pv-global-supply-chains)

[BP Statistical Review of World Energy](https://www.bp.com/en/global/corporate/energy-economics/statistical-review-of-world-energy.html)

## Chapter 2. Solar Radiation ##
[Reference Air Mass 1.5 Spectra](https://www.nrel.gov/grid/solar-resource/spectra-am1.5.html)

[Backbody spectra simulator](https://phet.colorado.edu/en/simulations/blackbody-spectrum/about)

[Sun Path](http://andrewmarsh.com/apps/staging/sunpath3d.html)

[PV & solar radiation glossary](https://duramat.github.io/pv-terms/)

**Solar data**

[The World Bank, Global Atlas](https://globalsolaratlas.info/solar-measurement)

[NREL, Measurement and Instrumentation Data Center](https://midcdmz.nrel.gov/)

[NREL, NSRDB, National Solar Radiation Database](https://nsrdb.nrel.gov/)

[JRC-EU, PVGIS, Photovoltaic Geographical Information System (contains NSRDB data)](https://re.jrc.ec.europa.eu/)

[Solar radiation maps from SOLARGIS](https://solargis.com/maps-and-gis-data/overview)

**Solar/PV modeling**

[Sandia, PV Performance Modeling Collaborative](https://pvpmc.sandia.gov/)

[NREL, System Advisor Model](https://sam.nrel.gov/)

[NREL, PVWatts Calculator](https://pvwatts.nrel.gov/)

[PV*SOL, PV simulator](https://pvsol-online.valentin-software.com/)

[IES-UPM, SISIFO, PV simulator](https://www.sisifo.info/en/default)

[PVSyst, PV simulator](https://www.pvsyst.com/)

[pvlib-python, PV & solar radiation simulator](https://github.com/pvlib/pvlib-python)

[Renewables.ninja, Solar&wind power output simulator](https://www.renewables.ninja/)

[Atlite](https://atlite.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)

## Chapter 3. Working principles of a solar cell ##

[PVEducation, Chapters 3 and 4](https://www.pveducation.org/)

## Chapter 5. Silicon solar cell fabrication technology ##

[Video Summary Production of Silicon (NTNU)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D1ALNg3z2gk)

[Video Summary Production of Silicon (Wacker)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YxiNp7oQtuA)

[Silicon metal production plant description](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uCAxklI9yCA)

[3D video of Electric Arc Furnace (you can rotate the image)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NexTpizHOj8)

[Video EAF during penetration of electrodes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NBicwBvQEC0)

[Video Czochralski ingot pulling and wafer sewing, UNSW](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=skRmyhSOu28)

[Video Solar phosphorus diffusion for silicon solar cells, UNSW](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nQO6bSUMcLY)

[Video Silver and Aluminium Screen Printing, UNSW](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=umTUzHXv9YQ)

[Fraunhofer-ISE, Photovoltaics Report](https://www.ise.fraunhofer.de/de/veroeffentlichungen/studien/photovoltaics-report.html)

[International Technology Roadmap for Photovoltaic](https://itrpv.vdma.org/en/)

[pv-manufacturing](https://pv-manufacturing.org/)

[Taiyangnews](https://taiyangnews.info/)

[PV Tech](https://www.pv-tech.org/)

## Chapter 6. Alternative solar-cell technologies ##

[Best Research-Cell Efficiency Chart, NREL](https://www.nrel.gov/pv/cell-efficiency.html)

[Efficiency Comparison of Technologies: Best Lab Cells vs. Best Lab Modules, Fraunhofer ISE](https://www.ise.fraunhofer.de/content/dam/ise/de/documents/publications/studies/Photovoltaics-Report.pdf#page=29)

[Solar cell efficiency tables (version 62)]( https://doi.org/10.1002/pip.3726)

[Video Perovskite solar cell fabrication](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cRBwVACI7FU)


## Chapter 7. Photovoltaic modules ##

[PVEducation, Chapter 7](https://www.pveducation.org/)

[Numerical methods for solving PV models in Python](https://lectures.scientific-python.org/index.html)

Using Lambert's W for solving single diode model: [Hansen, C., Parameter Estimation for Single Diode Models of Photovoltaic Modules, SAND2015-2065, Sandia National Laboratories, 2015](https://www.osti.gov/servlets/purl/1177157)

[Single-diode model parameters for modules in the CEC database](https://github.com/NREL/SAM/blob/develop/deploy/libraries/CEC%20Modules.csv)

**Software tools**

[SmartCalc.CTM and SmartCalc.Module](https://www.cell-to-module.com/software/#versions)

[SunSolve](https://www.pvlighthouse.com.au/sunsolve-power)

**PV industry**

[PV modules Top performers](https://modulescorecard.pvel.com/top-performers/)

[duramat.org](https://www.duramat.org/)

[International Technology Roadmap for Photovoltaic](https://itrpv.vdma.org/en/)

[Fraunhofer-ISE, Photovoltaics Report](https://www.ise.fraunhofer.de/de/veroeffentlichungen/studien/photovoltaics-report.html)

**Videos on PV module manufacturing and recycling**

[Manufacturing of PV modules](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DksYJqtNcX8)

[Automated recycling line](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B7b3uzGi6fQ)

## Chapter 9.	Design and operation of distributed PV systems ##

[pvlib-python, PV & solar radiation simulator](https://github.com/pvlib/pvlib-python)

[pv pumping system code](https://github.com/tylunel/pvpumpingsystem), [pv pumping system documentation](https://pvpumpingsystem.readthedocs.io/en/latest/package_overview.html)


## Chapter 10. Design and Operation of Utility-scale Solar Power Plants ##

[World's largest photovoltaic power plants, wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_photovoltaic_power_stations)

**Radiation databases**

[JRC-EU, PVGIS, Photovoltaic Geographical Information System (contains NSRDB data)](https://re.jrc.ec.europa.eu/)

[Solar radiation maps from SOLARGIS](https://solargis.com/maps-and-gis-data/overview)

[HelioClim-3](https://www.soda-pro.com/)

**GIS tools for site evaluation**

[Google Earth](https://earth.google.com/web/)

[Global mapper](https://www.bluemarblegeo.com/global-mapper/)

**CAD tools**

[PV case](https://www.pvcase.com)

[PV CAD](https://pvcomplete.com/)

[Helios 3D](https://www.helios3d.com)

**PV modeling**

[Sandia, PV Performance Modeling Collaborative](https://pvpmc.sandia.gov/)

[NREL, System Advisor Model (SAM)](https://sam.nrel.gov/)

[NREL, PVWatts Calculator](https://pvwatts.nrel.gov/)

[PVSyst, PV simulator](https://www.pvsyst.com/)

[PV*SOL, PV simulator](https://pvsol-online.valentin-software.com/)

[IES-UPM, SISIFO, PV simulator](https://www.sisifo.info/en/default)

[PlantPredict](https://plantpredict.com/)

[pvlib-python, PV & solar radiation simulator](https://github.com/pvlib/pvlib-python)

[Renewables.ninja, Solar&wind power output simulator](https://www.renewables.ninja/)

[Atlite](https://atlite.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
 
[List of open source PV tools](https://openpvtools.readthedocs.io/) from ["Review of Open Source Tools for PV Modeling" by Will Holmgren, _et al._ at IEEE 7th World Conference on PV Energy Conversion 2018](http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/PVSC.2018.8548231).


## Chapter 11. Integrated Photovoltaics ##

[Analysis of the building sector, IEA](https://www.iea.org/reports/buildings)

## Chapter 12. Measuring solar cells, modules, and power plants ##
[Fitting an I-V curve from measured data](https://www.pvlighthouse.com.au/cms/lectures/white-papers/electrical/pmax-intro)

[Spectral Mismatch Calculator](https://www2.pvlighthouse.com.au/calculators/spectral%20mismatch%20calculator/spectral%20mismatch%20calculator.aspx)

[Electroluminescence while walking on a PV module](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-qdyxIybmoc!)

[Electro-Optical Characterization at NREL](https://www.nrel.gov/pv/electro-optical-characterization.html)

[Photovoltaics Characterization: An Overview](https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy99osti/29591.pdf)

[Best Research-Cell Efficiency Chart](https://www.nrel.gov/pv/cell-efficiency.html)

[Research on Photovoltaic characterization at NREL](https://www.nrel.gov/pv/measurements.html)

[Characterization facilities for PV materials and cells at IES-UPM](https://www.ies.upm.es/Investigacion/Research_infrastructures/Cell_and_material_characterization)

[Photovoltaic reports at Fraunhofer Institute](https://www.ise.fraunhofer.de/en/publications/studies/photovoltaics-report.html)

[Silicon photovoltaics characterization at Fraunhofer Institute](https://www.ise.fraunhofer.de/en/business-areas/photovoltaics/silicon-photovoltaics.html)


## Chapter 13.  Economics of solar energy ##

[IRENA,  Power Generation Costs](https://www.irena.org/costs/Power-Generation-Costs)

[Lazard's Levelized Cost of Energy](https://www.lazard.com/perspective/levelized-cost-of-energy-levelized-cost-of-storage-and-levelized-cost-of-hydrogen/)

[Fraunhofer-ISE, Photovoltaics Report](https://www.ise.fraunhofer.de/de/veroeffentlichungen/studien/photovoltaics-report.html)


## Chapter 14.  Large penetration of solar in the grid  ##

[Understanding Inertia Without the Spin, NREL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b9JN7kj1tso)

PyPSA: Open energy-modelling framework: [pypsa.org](https://pypsa.org/)

PyPSA-Eur-Sec: Open sector-coupled network model of the European Energy System: [documentation](https://pypsa-eur-sec.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) and [code](https://github.com/PyPSA/pypsa-eur-sec)

[model.energy](https://model.energy/)

[State and Trends of Carbon Pricing](https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/entities/publication/a1abead2-de91-5992-bb7a-73d8aaaf767f)

## Chapter 15.  Solar PV for space applications  ##

[Video showing the roll out solar arrays at the International Space Station](https://twitter.com/Space_Station/status/1406639933796847621)

[Video showing the test deployment of JUICE's solar panels](https://sci.esa.int/web/juice/-/test-deployment-of-juice-s-solar-panels)

[Gif showing the deployment of JUICE's solar array](https://twitter.com/ESA_JUICE/status/1646869785114812418?s=20)

Commit message:

Add link to videos of the Bell battery and TEDx talk

pv-textbook/Links/Relevant_links.md, after:

# Relevant links

This list gathers updated links to online reports, apps, and other tools that are related to the topics covered in the book. 

## Chapter 1. Introduction to Photovoltaic Solar Energy ##

**Annually-published reports including updated information on solar PV.**

[Fraunhofer-ISE, Photovoltaics Report](https://www.ise.fraunhofer.de/de/veroeffentlichungen/studien/photovoltaics-report.html)

[IEA Photovoltaic Power Systems Programme (PVPS). Snapshot of global PV markets](https://iea-pvps.org/snapshot-reports/snapshot-2022/)

[REN21,  Renewables 2021. Global Status Report](https://www.ren21.net/reports/global-status-report/)

[IEA, Solar PV webpage](https://www.iea.org/reports/solar-pv)

[NREL, Life Cycle Assessment](https://www.nrel.gov/analysis/life-cycle-assessment.html)

[Photon International. Solar Power Magazine](https://www.photon.info/en/photon-international-solar-power-magazine)

[IEA Special Report, Solar PV Global Supply Chains](https://www.iea.org/reports/solar-pv-global-supply-chains)

[BP Statistical Review of World Energy](https://www.bp.com/en/global/corporate/energy-economics/statistical-review-of-world-energy.html)

[History of solar PV: Video from AT&T Archives on The Bell Solar Battery](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3I1JhyOahIw)

## Chapter 2. Solar Radiation ##
[Reference Air Mass 1.5 Spectra](https://www.nrel.gov/grid/solar-resource/spectra-am1.5.html)

[Backbody spectra simulator](https://phet.colorado.edu/en/simulations/blackbody-spectrum/about)

[Sun Path](http://andrewmarsh.com/apps/staging/sunpath3d.html)

[PV & solar radiation glossary](https://duramat.github.io/pv-terms/)

**Solar data**

[The World Bank, Global Atlas](https://globalsolaratlas.info/solar-measurement)

[NREL, Measurement and Instrumentation Data Center](https://midcdmz.nrel.gov/)

[NREL, NSRDB, National Solar Radiation Database](https://nsrdb.nrel.gov/)

[JRC-EU, PVGIS, Photovoltaic Geographical Information System (contains NSRDB data)](https://re.jrc.ec.europa.eu/)

[Solar radiation maps from SOLARGIS](https://solargis.com/maps-and-gis-data/overview)

**Solar/PV modeling**

[Sandia, PV Performance Modeling Collaborative](https://pvpmc.sandia.gov/)

[NREL, System Advisor Model](https://sam.nrel.gov/)

[NREL, PVWatts Calculator](https://pvwatts.nrel.gov/)

[PV*SOL, PV simulator](https://pvsol-online.valentin-software.com/)

[IES-UPM, SISIFO, PV simulator](https://www.sisifo.info/en/default)

[PVSyst, PV simulator](https://www.pvsyst.com/)

[pvlib-python, PV & solar radiation simulator](https://github.com/pvlib/pvlib-python)

[Renewables.ninja, Solar&wind power output simulator](https://www.renewables.ninja/)

[Atlite](https://atlite.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)

## Chapter 3. Working principles of a solar cell ##

[PVEducation, Chapters 3 and 4](https://www.pveducation.org/)

## Chapter 5. Silicon solar cell fabrication technology ##

[Video Summary Production of Silicon (NTNU)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D1ALNg3z2gk)

[Video Summary Production of Silicon (Wacker)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YxiNp7oQtuA)

[Silicon metal production plant description](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uCAxklI9yCA)

[3D video of Electric Arc Furnace (you can rotate the image)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NexTpizHOj8)

[Video EAF during penetration of electrodes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NBicwBvQEC0)

[Video Czochralski ingot pulling and wafer sewing, UNSW](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=skRmyhSOu28)

[Video Solar phosphorus diffusion for silicon solar cells, UNSW](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nQO6bSUMcLY)

[Video Silver and Aluminium Screen Printing, UNSW](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=umTUzHXv9YQ)

[Fraunhofer-ISE, Photovoltaics Report](https://www.ise.fraunhofer.de/de/veroeffentlichungen/studien/photovoltaics-report.html)

[International Technology Roadmap for Photovoltaic](https://itrpv.vdma.org/en/)

[pv-manufacturing](https://pv-manufacturing.org/)

[Taiyangnews](https://taiyangnews.info/)

[PV Tech](https://www.pv-tech.org/)

## Chapter 6. Alternative solar-cell technologies ##

[Best Research-Cell Efficiency Chart, NREL](https://www.nrel.gov/pv/cell-efficiency.html)

[Efficiency Comparison of Technologies: Best Lab Cells vs. Best Lab Modules, Fraunhofer ISE](https://www.ise.fraunhofer.de/content/dam/ise/de/documents/publications/studies/Photovoltaics-Report.pdf#page=29)

[Solar cell efficiency tables (version 62)]( https://doi.org/10.1002/pip.3726)

[Video Perovskite solar cell fabrication](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cRBwVACI7FU)


## Chapter 7. Photovoltaic modules ##

[PVEducation, Chapter 7](https://www.pveducation.org/)

[Numerical methods for solving PV models in Python](https://lectures.scientific-python.org/index.html)

Using Lambert's W for solving single diode model: [Hansen, C., Parameter Estimation for Single Diode Models of Photovoltaic Modules, SAND2015-2065, Sandia National Laboratories, 2015](https://www.osti.gov/servlets/purl/1177157)

[Single-diode model parameters for modules in the CEC database](https://github.com/NREL/SAM/blob/develop/deploy/libraries/CEC%20Modules.csv)

**Software tools**

[SmartCalc.CTM and SmartCalc.Module](https://www.cell-to-module.com/software/#versions)

[SunSolve](https://www.pvlighthouse.com.au/sunsolve-power)

**PV industry**

[PV modules Top performers](https://modulescorecard.pvel.com/top-performers/)

[duramat.org](https://www.duramat.org/)

[International Technology Roadmap for Photovoltaic](https://itrpv.vdma.org/en/)

[Fraunhofer-ISE, Photovoltaics Report](https://www.ise.fraunhofer.de/de/veroeffentlichungen/studien/photovoltaics-report.html)

**Videos on PV module manufacturing and recycling**

[Manufacturing of PV modules](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DksYJqtNcX8)

[Automated recycling line](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B7b3uzGi6fQ)

## Chapter 9.	Design and operation of distributed PV systems ##

[pvlib-python, PV & solar radiation simulator](https://github.com/pvlib/pvlib-python)

[pv pumping system code](https://github.com/tylunel/pvpumpingsystem), [pv pumping system documentation](https://pvpumpingsystem.readthedocs.io/en/latest/package_overview.html)


## Chapter 10. Design and Operation of Utility-scale Solar Power Plants ##

[World's largest photovoltaic power plants, wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_photovoltaic_power_stations)

**Radiation databases**

[JRC-EU, PVGIS, Photovoltaic Geographical Information System (contains NSRDB data)](https://re.jrc.ec.europa.eu/)

[Solar radiation maps from SOLARGIS](https://solargis.com/maps-and-gis-data/overview)

[HelioClim-3](https://www.soda-pro.com/)

**GIS tools for site evaluation**

[Google Earth](https://earth.google.com/web/)

[Global mapper](https://www.bluemarblegeo.com/global-mapper/)

**CAD tools**

[PV case](https://www.pvcase.com)

[PV CAD](https://pvcomplete.com/)

[Helios 3D](https://www.helios3d.com)

**PV modeling**

[Sandia, PV Performance Modeling Collaborative](https://pvpmc.sandia.gov/)

[NREL, System Advisor Model (SAM)](https://sam.nrel.gov/)

[NREL, PVWatts Calculator](https://pvwatts.nrel.gov/)

[PVSyst, PV simulator](https://www.pvsyst.com/)

[PV*SOL, PV simulator](https://pvsol-online.valentin-software.com/)

[IES-UPM, SISIFO, PV simulator](https://www.sisifo.info/en/default)

[PlantPredict](https://plantpredict.com/)

[pvlib-python, PV & solar radiation simulator](https://github.com/pvlib/pvlib-python)

[Renewables.ninja, Solar&wind power output simulator](https://www.renewables.ninja/)

[Atlite](https://atlite.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
 
[List of open source PV tools](https://openpvtools.readthedocs.io/) from ["Review of Open Source Tools for PV Modeling" by Will Holmgren, _et al._ at IEEE 7th World Conference on PV Energy Conversion 2018](http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/PVSC.2018.8548231).


## Chapter 11. Integrated Photovoltaics ##

[Analysis of the building sector, IEA](https://www.iea.org/reports/buildings)

## Chapter 12. Measuring solar cells, modules, and power plants ##
[Fitting an I-V curve from measured data](https://www.pvlighthouse.com.au/cms/lectures/white-papers/electrical/pmax-intro)

[Spectral Mismatch Calculator](https://www2.pvlighthouse.com.au/calculators/spectral%20mismatch%20calculator/spectral%20mismatch%20calculator.aspx)

[Electroluminescence while walking on a PV module](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-qdyxIybmoc!)

[Electro-Optical Characterization at NREL](https://www.nrel.gov/pv/electro-optical-characterization.html)

[Photovoltaics Characterization: An Overview](https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy99osti/29591.pdf)

[Best Research-Cell Efficiency Chart](https://www.nrel.gov/pv/cell-efficiency.html)

[Research on Photovoltaic characterization at NREL](https://www.nrel.gov/pv/measurements.html)

[Characterization facilities for PV materials and cells at IES-UPM](https://www.ies.upm.es/Investigacion/Research_infrastructures/Cell_and_material_characterization)

[Photovoltaic reports at Fraunhofer Institute](https://www.ise.fraunhofer.de/en/publications/studies/photovoltaics-report.html)

[Silicon photovoltaics characterization at Fraunhofer Institute](https://www.ise.fraunhofer.de/en/business-areas/photovoltaics/silicon-photovoltaics.html)


## Chapter 13.  Economics of solar energy ##

[IRENA,  Power Generation Costs](https://www.irena.org/costs/Power-Generation-Costs)

[Lazard's Levelized Cost of Energy](https://www.lazard.com/perspective/levelized-cost-of-energy-levelized-cost-of-storage-and-levelized-cost-of-hydrogen/)

[Fraunhofer-ISE, Photovoltaics Report](https://www.ise.fraunhofer.de/de/veroeffentlichungen/studien/photovoltaics-report.html)

[TEDx talk by Jenny Chase: Solar Energy Is Even Cheaper Than You Think](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BsVhgta2WAo)

## Chapter 14.  Large penetration of solar in the grid  ##

[Understanding Inertia Without the Spin, NREL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b9JN7kj1tso)

PyPSA: Open energy-modelling framework: [pypsa.org](https://pypsa.org/)

PyPSA-Eur-Sec: Open sector-coupled network model of the European Energy System: [documentation](https://pypsa-eur-sec.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) and [code](https://github.com/PyPSA/pypsa-eur-sec)

[model.energy](https://model.energy/)

[State and Trends of Carbon Pricing](https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/entities/publication/a1abead2-de91-5992-bb7a-73d8aaaf767f)

## Chapter 15.  Solar PV for space applications  ##

[Video showing the roll out solar arrays at the International Space Station](https://twitter.com/Space_Station/status/1406639933796847621)

[Video showing the test deployment of JUICE's solar panels](https://sci.esa.int/web/juice/-/test-deployment-of-juice-s-solar-panels)

[Gif showing the deployment of JUICE's solar array](https://twitter.com/ESA_JUICE/status/1646869785114812418?s=20)
